+++
title = "Neovim 0.5 Setup"
+++

Neovim 0.5 is finally here! I am going to document some of my old notes that I
took when I used nightly as well as some new stuff.

### init.lua

You can use `init.lua` instead of `init.vim` to have your configuration file be
written in lua! To be honest, I don't think there is a good reason to do this
other than fighting boredom. I don't even think you can learn lua doing it.
Here are some things that I learned from doing it.  Replacing `let` is just
using `vim.g`. Keymaps can be defined with `vim.api.nvim_set_keymap()`. Things
you do with `set` you can do with `vim.o`.  However, when I was setting my
undodir using `vim.o.undodir`, I had to use `vim.fn.expand` because it took the
`~/.vimundo` string literally which created a ~ folder for each of my working
directories. Therefore I had to use `vim.o.undodir = vim.fn.expand
'~/.vimundo'`. There are probably other caveats as well. This is most
definitely a bad introduction but there is now good documentation if you use
`:h lua-vimscript`. The `vim.api` functions can be found under `:h api.txt`. 

### Plugins

Since the introduction of lua, there has been a lot of new plugins. I now use
[`packer.nvim`](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) as my package
manager as it supports lazy loading to improve startup time and you can
configure your packages declaratively. A cool plugin that I discovered was
[`telescope.nvim`](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim), but it
was pretty slow for grepping files; I found
[`snap`](https://github.com/camspiers/snap) but I haven't tried it. I also have
been meaning to try out [`neogit`](https://github.com/TimUntersberger/neogit).

### LSP

With 0.5, neovim now has a builtin LSP client. Advantages over other LSP
clients are customability and speed. If you are happy with your current setup,
you don't really need to switch. When I was running nightly, I had to do a lot
of special configuration, but I now think the builtin LSP is super easy to
setup. Checkout [`nvim-lspconfig`](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig)
and its wiki and you should be good to go.  Basically you need to install the
language servers yourself (or use a plugin), and you need to setup completion
(I used to use [`completion.nvim`](https://github.com/nvim-lua/completion-nvim)
but I found [`nvim-compe`](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-compe) better). Some
completions need snippet support, so you need to install a plugin that supports
it (I use [`vim-vsnip`](https://github.com/hrsh7th/vim-vsnip) but might switch
to lua-based one) and you also need tell the lsp server that you can use
snippets by overriding the default client capabilities.

### Treesitter

We also get introduced to beta of treesitter support in neovim. It basically
allows you to leverage an incremental parsing library. You can use it to
manipulate the your file based on the syntax trees parsed. You can also have
better highlighting, indentation, and folding support. I currently only
treesitter for the better syntax highlighting, so I haven't really tried
treesitter out. You do need to install a
[plugin](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter) however.
