+++
title = "Life Rambles"
+++
I am too lazy to proofread anything.

I graduated from MIT today. Well, I still have a MEng to finish starting in the
Fall. I would want to list the good things that I have experienced here, but I
currently just want to record the negatives. There probably are studies that
showcase this phenomenon anyway.

Some professors here, for the lack of a better word, are mid. I'm sure all
professors are amazing in their field of research, but some cannot teach at
all. This gets overshadowed in smaller upper-level classes because a decent
amount of the students have good background on the material and the other
students get amongus. This can usually be dealt with by talking to TAs or
looking at external resources. My main gripe is communication. Some professors
don't even respond after 5+ emails over a time span of 2 months.

And to the amazing professors, I wished I would have talked to them more. I
barely even thanked them. I probably would have known earlier what I wanted to
do in computer science if I had interacted with professors earlier. Honestly, I
  still don't truly know what I want to do. COVID obviously didn't help, but I
  had plenty of time before the pandemic.

Next, there's intimidation. I know it happens both ways; I have intimidated
others and others have intimidated me. I used to get intimidated by how many
classes others take, but that doesn't phase me anymore. It's now more about the
speed one completes an assignment. It also didn't help that I always took at
least 5-6 classes until the end of my undergraduate career. I realized that I
learn less and topics become uninteresting when taking more classes. I was just
seeking out completion of assignments rather than the actual enjoyment of
learning. My free time was also literally nonexistent.

I know for sure that I have intimidated others. It lowers my self-esteem for an
odd reason. Within MIT, I offer to give guidance for anything, but I always get
the vibe that people are too afraid to ask me for help (or maybe I am just bad
haha). Outside of MIT, some people think I am some superhuman while in reality
I am just a potato. This makes me not wanting to reveal what school I go to.
When asked, I usually just say, "I go to Mass Tech." It is surprisingly less
intimidating.

It would be a lie if I said every classmate of mine would be intimidated if I
offered help. However, there are times when I feel like people only want to be
friends with me, so I can help them with their psets. I mean this has only
occurred a few times, but like I said, bad stuff sticks. Asking me for pset
help is fine, and you don't even need to try to be my friend (lol?). Maybe I
had a bad experience, but some relationships only seem to be transactional.

But it would be a bigger lie if I said I was the perfect person here. I was
terrible. In fact, I still am one of the worst. I am always negative and
self-deprecating (as you can tell). I am a blunt asshole. I am a hater. If I
like you, I seek ways to start disliking you. I am so cynical about everything.

I am now going to divert my thoughts and think of bubbles. Speaking of bubbles,
there's a lot of "bubbles" at MIT. There's the never explored anything
outside MIT bubble. There's that one group who only talks about startups.
Then there are groups where people knew each other before MIT and then they
never bothered to make new friends. And there's the biggest bubble of all:
everyone uses Facebook. I don't want to use Facebook. I tried escaping but I
had to go back. If you leave, you are basically cutting off communication with
like 90% of your classmates. The assumed way to communicate is Messenger.
However, I do see less use from underclassmen.

Oh yea, then there's the fact where I am losing my language. Every year I go
back home, I lose more of my ability to speak my first language. The way I
speak to my parents is probably now a new language itself. It evolves, becoming
more and more scuffed every year. I tried speaking to my grandparents when I
graduated, but half the time I didn't know what to say. I guess my connection
to  a lot of family members are getting weaker. I mean this really isn't MIT's
fault. This is more of a symptom of being away from home for a decent amount of
time.

Looking back, I know I changed but at what cost? I still feel more unhappy than
happy. Hopefully, my perspective will change after a few years away from "the
Institute". I also have around one more year here so things can change within
that time too.

Oh by the way, I love Nicole Curry.
