+++
title = "Untitled 2024"
+++

Happy new year! A semi not important brain dump mainly from December 2023 that I wanted to write down.

### defaultdict(int) vs Counter

A difference that I discovered between `defaultdict(int)` and `Counter` that
caused a problem during my attempt on an [Advent of
Code](https://adventofcode.com/) solution was that `Counter` doesn't add a key
when you query a missing key. However, `defaultdict(int)` does!

### Generating a new shared pointer of this in C++

I made a [ray tracer](https://github.com/tzx/rt) recently. One of things that I
wanted to do is to create a new shared pointer from a shared pointer of an object.
You can do that with
[std::enable_shared_from_this](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/enable_shared_from_this).

Tangent:
[here](https://users.rust-lang.org/t/distinguishing-affine-and-vector-quantities-in-the-type-system/73139/5)
is a cool discussion I found about affine and vector types in Rust!

### Moving multiple lines of text in Neovim

A feature that I saw in Eclipse (probably other editors support this) that I
wanted to replicate in Neovim is to *move* up/down multiple lines of text. It
is different from yanking and putting as *moving* is something you can see
in-place.

Here it is:
```lua
vim.keymap.set('v', '<A-j>', ":m '>+1<CR>gv=gv")
vim.keymap.set('v', '<A-k>', ":m '<-2<CR>gv=gv")
```

This binds moving selected text in visual mode to `Alt-j` and `Alt-k`.

### vim.o vs vim.opt

In Neovim, `vim.o.*` and `vim.opt.*` are different! I thought they were the same.
`vim.o` is a string and `vim.opt` is a table which allows more idiomatic lua code!
I should maybe move from `vim.o` to `vim.opt` when I am bored.

I discovered this difference when I wanted to add something to
`listchars`. `vim.o.listchars += eol:↲` didn't work! From my
discoveries, in vimscript, `set listchars+=eol:↲` seems to add an comma which
doesn't happen in `lua`. Therefore I opted (aha) to use
`vim.opt.listchars:append({ eol = ↲ })` instead. 
